**North West Genomic Laboratory Hub (Manchester Site)**
Manchester Centre for Genomic Medicine
6th Floor, St Mary's Hospital, Manchester, M13 9WL
Scientific Operational Director: Dr E. Howard
https://mft.nhs.uk/nwglh/ mft.genomics@nhs.net Tel +44(0) 161 276 6122



Forename: **ACCESSIBILITY**

Surname: **ZZZTESTA**



Report No: **R24-0WH7-1**
Hospital No: **Not provided**
Other No: **Not provided**



Sex: **Unspecified** Other No: **Not provided**

DoB: **21/10/1978** Sample: **Blood** Sample2: **Blood**



DoB: **21/10/1978** Sample: **Blood**



NHS No: **999 001 2563**


Collected: **Not provided**
Collected2: **25/06/2024**



Received:
Received2:



**08/10/2023 08:18**
**26/06/2024 14:21**



Activated: **26/06/2024**
Reported:



Referred by: Dr Anna Castleton, Haematology, The Christie Hospital, Manchester, M20 4BX, (chn-tr.Haematology.Results@nhs.net)

# **Genomics Laboratory Report**


**Reason for Testing**
MRD follow up.


**RESULT SUMMARY:**


_BCR::ABL1_ Major (e14a2 / e13a2) – Detected and quantitated. See graph overleaf.


**Result and Interpretation**

The bone marrow/peripheral blood sample taken/received from this patient on XX/XX/XX showed detectable _BCR::ABL1_ transcripts: X%
_BCR::ABL1_ [IS] (MR [X] ).


[REASON FOR TESTING - COPY BELOW TEXT TO 'REPORTING REFERRAL INFORMATION TEXT' BOX THEN DELETE]
Measurable residual disease analysis for the _BCR::ABL1_ fusion transcript has been requested.



Reported By:
Hannah Reed
Pre-Registration Scientist



Authorised By:



Page 1 of 2


Forename: **ACCESSIBILITY** Report No: **R24-0WH7-1**

Surname: **ZZZTESTA** DoB: **21/10/1978**


_**APPENDIX I - Test Methodology:**_


_**Interpretation of graph:**_ _BCR::ABL1 RT-qPCR results for the major transcripts (e14a2/e13a2) are expressed on the International Scale (IS) as a percentage relative to the_
_standardised baseline used in the IRIS trial which evaluated the tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) in patients with CML. The reference gene used for this assay is ABL1. Levels_
_above the upper relapse risk threshold are consistent with fusion gene levels detected at presentation, persistent disease and relapse. The lower risk threshold (or lower)_
_approximately equates to a 2-log reduction which is usually consistent with complete cytogenetic remission (CCyR). The pale blue line (or lower) represents a major_
_molecular response (MMR) defined as a 3-log reduction from the standardised baseline (MR3 or 0.1% BCR::ABL1 IS) in major (e14a2/e13a2) positive patients. For major_
_(e14a2/e13a2) positive patients, deep molecular responses (DMR) of MR4, MR4.5, and MR5 are defined as ≤0.01%, ≤0.0032% and ≤0.001% BCR::ABL1 IS respectively._
_Please note, these levels have been defined for CML patients, equivalence has not been established for ALL patients. The levels are not patient specific and therefore there_
_may be some patient outliers. The target sensitivity of the assay for major (e14a2/e13a2) positive patients is MR4.5 in most samples. Levels in-between the two risk_
_thresholds (red lines) are consistent with gradual decrease in disease level after treatment (As after diagnosis or relapse) ot increased/high risk of relapse if the patients in_
_remission. A level of 0.0001% is negative which represents undetectable transcripts. Red crosses on graph indicate unquantifiable results. Green data points show the_
_sensitivity level of each test. Sensitivity levels of 0.00001% and below are consistent with highest reliability. * For optimum sensitivity, please provide at least 5ml EDTA_
_peripheral blood or 1ml EDTA bone marrow within 24 hours (preferable) to 48 hours. Interpretation of BCR::ABL1 major (e14a2/e13a2) results will be according to the current_
_ELN guidelines (Baccarani et al 2013, Blood, 122, 872-884), depending on sufficient clinical information given._


_**Laboratory process**_
_**RNA extraction:**_ _Maxwell RSC simplyRNA for samples extracted by NWGLH_
_**Testing method:**_ _The TRUPCR® BCR-ABL1 Kit (Version 2.1) by 3B BlackBio Biotech India Ltd (operating as TRUPCR® Europe Ltd) is used to quantify BCR::ABL1 Major_
_(e14a2 and e13a2) fusion transcripts in RNA isolated from the patient sample. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) is performed on the_
_Applied Biosystems® QuantStudio™ 6 platform and analysed in the accompanying software. The TRUPCR® BCR-ABL1 Kit includes six plasmid-based standards that are_
_calibrated to European reference material (ERM®-AD623). Each standard contains both BCR::ABL1 and ABL1 targets to limit variability, with copy numbers of 10^2-10^7 for_
_standard curve production. Each kit contains a calibrator sample which has been normalised to WHO International Standard NIBSC 09/138 material for quantitation of BCR::_
_ABL1, enabling internal conversion of results to the International Scale (IS)._


_**Limitations:**_ _The assay is designed for measuring deep molecular response and has a limit of detection of ≥3 copies of BCR::ABL1 transcript per reaction well._


_**Regulation and accreditations:**_ _This test is not UKAS accredited. This test has been validated locally and will be submitted for UKAS assessment imminently._


_Please contact the laboratory for additional details, if required._


_**APPENDIX II - Minimal/Measurable Residual Disease (MRD) Chart:**_


Page 2 of 2


